F2016	AER E	Aerospace Engineering	MS	Taiwan	M	"Because my current occupation is related to the maintenance and engineering of aircraft I would like to learn more on designing aspects of airplanes. I hope I can develop my career further in the aviation related industry. I anticipate to starting my graduate study in the fall of 2016 and obtain the master degree in two years. As an undergraduate student, I was very good at subjects relating to engineering mathematics, dynamics, and mechanics of materials. In addition, I also conducted many experiments on topics of materials and structures, such as reflection photo-elasticity and mechanical impact test. I believe those experiences would serve as a good foundation for me to explore more advanced researches at graduate school. My choice of this major is heavily influenced by my current professional job. There were many interesting findings during my work. For example, I discovered that with the same component on two different brands of engines (i.e. Pratt & Whitney and General Electric) placing on the same Boeing B747-400 model airplane, the life of such component varies greatly. From my experience, I felt the engine's output temperature and pressure exerting to the component could be the main factors for the life discrepancy of the components. To fully understand this type of issue, I believe studying the material of the components would be a good start. I plan to involve more on the research topics relating to Design, Manufacturing & Multidisciplinary Optimization and Structural Mechanics, Material & Manufacturing. I believe researches in aforementioned topics can help to create accessories within aircraft with stability and come out with the optimal aircraft designs. In addition, structure fatigue sensors may also be crucial steps toward future aircraft advancement. Upon getting my master degree, my short term goal would be working in an aircraft components company, such as UTC Aero Hamilton and Honeywell. I think I may explore more in depth on component designs in the system level within such company. I am not only able to study and analyze the components, but also understand its technological limitations and enhance those components' stability. In the mid-term, I hope to be a contributor to the development of the new components. For instance, the core material in pneumatic system is one of the areas that I am interested to explore more. Now-a-day, diaphragm is the main material used in pneumatics system. However, such material (diaphragm) is susceptible to high temperature degradation and consequently, impacts the performance. In the long term, I hope to become an engineer with rich experience in both manufacturing and design to solve various issues relating to aircraft's system design and maintenance. Based on my current working experience, I observed that each part within an aircraft system is tightly related to others within the system. Therefore, my long term goal is to serve in an aircraft manufacturer and leverage my learning at schools couple with my experience accumulated at works to contribute to the progress and safety enhancement of aviation technology."
F2016	B M S	Biomedical Sciences	MS	United States	F	"My purpose of applying for the Biomedical Sciences program at Iowa State is to further my knowledge of laboratory skills that will be useful in further graduate work and employment opportunities. I would like to continue my education at Iowa State because I find that it is an environment that fosters learning as well as involvement in extracurricular activities. My interest in this program is driven by my desire to gain research skills that can be then applied to future career goals, either in the agricultural research community or the veterinary community. I feel as if I can learn many types of research techniques in this program that will help be beneficial to my future higher education and career. My previous experience with aspirating ovarian follicular fluid from pig ovaries has also fostered my interest in other types of research that exist. I feel that this program will be the best fit for me in order to learn the different research techniques that are needed in the various types of laboratory settings I may encounter.I have pushed myself every semester to do the best that I can with an average course load of 17 credits and involvement in two extracurricular organizations. With taking a rigorous course load almost every semester there were a few classes that were more difficult to get through, one such class being the second Organic Chemistry. This class was one that I had to retake and from retaking it I learned that sometimes multiple different study strategies as well as real-life applications can make learning the material easier and more understandable. This skill combined with the ability to communicate well with others, understand when to be a leader or a follower, and have the ability to understand when something is working and when a new idea may need to be put into place makes me versatile in different situations. These additional skills are something I learned in my time as being an anatomy lab teaching assistant, both a regular and a head teaching assistant, as well as in courses and lectures I attended as a George Washington Carver Scholar. Leading and listening abilities were also reinforced in my time as one of the volunteer chairs on the APVMA 2014 Symposium Planning Committee as I had to work with the general directors, other co-chairs, and the volunteers in order for the volunteer tasks to run smoothly during the event. Having the opportunity to help a graduate student aspirate oocytes from pig ovaries for his research project aided my ability to follow directions given that he needed follicles of a certain size and stage in order to be able to conduct his research on them. I believe that my involvement with these organizations on campus and research program at Iowa State has given me relevant experience that would allow me to succeed in the Biomedical Sciences program. Thank you for your consideration of my application."
